Adding roadmap - editing readme (#321)
Azure/CloudShell: roadmap/cs-roadmap-2023.md

# Roadmap 2023 and future investigations

Azure Cloud Shell is an interactive, authenticated, browser-accessible shell for managing Azure
resources. As a web-based environment, Cloud Shell provides immediate management access to any

> device with a network connection and provides a consistent and secure environment with

Reviewer: "any device"?

always-up-to-date tools. Users can work with their resources from any device, interactively, or
through automation

## FY2023 roadmap

> Azure Cloud Shell currently plans to release the following features and updates in the Sept-Oct 2023
> timeframe.
> 
> We plan to focus and achieve these goals:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Azure Cloud Shell team plans to release the following features and updates in the Sept-Oct 2023
timeframe.
```

- Secure: Azure Cloud Shell is designed with security in mind, and provides a secure, isolated
  environment for users to work in.
- Accessible: Azure Cloud Shell is accessible from any device with an internet connection, making it
  easy for users to manage their resources from anywhere.
- Reliable: Azure Cloud Shell is reliable, with built-in redundancy and automatic failover.
- Efficient: Azure Cloud Shell is designed to be efficient, with always-up-to-date tools.
- Cost-effective: Azure Cloud Shell is cost-effective, with no additional charges for the service
  beyond the cost of the underlying Azure resources used by the user. It also helps to reduce costs
  by allowing users to automate tasks and work more efficiently.

Based on our tenets, these are the investment priorities for 2023.

### Improved User Interface

The user interface refresh will help improve the customer experience, accessibility, and
functionality of Cloud Shell. This will make it easier for users to navigate and find the tools and
resources they need. Benefits include:

- Improved user interface to be more modern and intuitive.

> - Accessibility improvements for users who may have disabilities or impairments by improving color
>   contrast, adjusting font sizes and other accessibility improvements.

Reviewer: What "other accessibility improvements"?
```suggestion
- Update color contrast and font sizes to improve accessibility for user that may have vision impairments.
```

> - Support for enhanced functionality

Reviewer: Like what?

### Ephemeral Sessions

> Ephemeral sessions allow users to manage azure resources faster without the overhead of creating and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ephemeral sessions allow users to manage Azure resources faster without the overhead of creating and
```

associating Azure storage accounts. These temporary and disposable sessions are best for scenarios

> where customers need to perform ad-hoc tasks without the need to persist and data or files between

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where customers need to perform ad-hoc tasks without the need to persist data or files between
```

sessions. In addition, this provides a layer of security to scenarios to ensure that data or files
created during the session are not accessible to other users or processes after the session ends.

Benefits include:

- Allow customers to leverage Cloud Shell without a linked storage account
- Any saved files will be deleted with the container session
- Can be leveraged by partners to ensure that a customer can obtain a Cloud Shell session even if a
  storage account has never been configured

> - Benefits command injection scenarios

Reviewer: Makes it easier to inject commands? What do you really mean?
```suggestion
- Benefits command injection scenarios
```

Author: Great catch - this really doesn't make sense - and I don't think improving helps communicate the message for ephemeral -- so im removing

### Improving VNET Configuration

Azure Cloud shell can be deployed to a local network (VNET) to gain access to local resources such
as virtual machines, databases, and other connected services. As popularity of VNET has increased,
so has a number of issues relating to configuration confusion and the need to improve both the
documentation and configuration of VNET scenarios.

The VNET refresh will address these issues by making improvements:

- Updating documentation to better guide customers through the process of enabling a VNET.
- Improving the configuration options of the VNET scenario.
- Providing guided assistance to customers through ready-made ARM templates.

## FY2024 Investments, Investigations and discussions

> Working with customers, we are investigating and discussing future areas of imporvmeent and new features.  These investigation are greatly impacted and enhanced with customer feedback. We welcome your feedback as we progress through these discussions by adding issues or discussions to our repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are working with customers to investigate and discuss areas of improvement and new features.
We welcome your feedback. Please add issues or discussions to our repository.
```

> - Multiple saved storage accounts
> - Multiple/Custom images
> - Improved editor experience
> - Tenent/Subscription Administrative controls to manage Cloud Shell access.
> - Toolbar tabs
> - Improvements to Cloud Shell timeout values

Reviewer: What is this list? It seems disconnected from the previous paragraph.

```suggestion
- Multiple saved storage accounts
- Multiple/Custom images
- Improved editor experience
- Tenent/Subscription Administrative controls to manage Cloud Shell access.
- Toolbar tabs
- Improvements to Cloud Shell timeout values
```

Author: Agreed -- added context
